# HW1- Agile Manifesto

`You've been hired as an Agile Methods consultant by Driverless Cars, a new (fictitious) technology company that develops software to enable self-driving cars. The new software will allow cars to drive themselves without human intervention, including driving and parking while avoiding accidents with pedestrians and other vehicles.`

`Driverless Cars has asked you for a proposal describing the advantages and disadvantages of the following approaches for creating a new software module to parallel park cars without human assistance at slow speeds using a variety of sensors, cameras, and motors.`

- `Waterfall Method`
- `RUP`
- `Extreme Programming`

`You should assume that the project is starting from scratch and does not use any existing software.`

`In your submission, you must create a 2-3 page description of the problem along with the advantages and disadvantages of using each approach.`

`For each software development life cycle (SDLC), describe:`

- `The process, including the priorities of each approach`
- `Advantages of the SDLC for this problem`
- `Disadvantages of the SDLC for this problem`

                             Driverless Cars, a technology company, is planning to develop software to support autonomous driving. The software Driverless Cars wants to develop has had no prior development or features to work off of; the features they (Driverless Cars) would like to implement are: *“parallel park cars without human assistance at slow speeds using a variety of sensors, cameras, and motors.”* Driverless Cars has asked me to identify the positives, negatives, and priorities of using the following software development methods- Waterfall Method, RUP, and Extreme Programming.

                             The RUP (Rational Unified Process) is a flexible agile software development method that is divided into four phases- inception, elaboration, construction, and transition. RUP is used when the requirements are flexible. During each phase, all 6 core developments to a project occur: business modeling, requirements, analysis and design, implementation, testing, and deployment. The *Inception* phase is the initial evaluation to identify the scope and determine the cost-benefit of the project. Driverless Cars scope would be clear, you want to create a software module utilizing IoT to automatically parallel park a car. This would affect all civilians that drive as well as all of the car's potential surroundings. The *elaboration* phase is when Driverless Cars will assess risks by elaborations of a use case model as well as address the design of the software module. In *Construction* the software will be implemented and tested. Lastly, the *Transition* phase where the delivery of the project to a customer is planned and executed-here marks the end of an iteration. All these phases have the ability to be repeated if needed, as stated before this is an *iterative* process. RUP would be advantageous in that you can continuously verify software quality and control changes to the software whenever you see something unfit. This may sound ideal overall, however, it comes with great risk when considering the software module Driverless Cars is releasing. When releasing software with high risk there is no room for going back and making changes. In particularly large projects that utilize different components (in Driverless Cars case the sensors, actual car, and software) integrating throughout development can lead to confusion and cause massive issues during stages of testing. Therefore if using RUP it’s essential that there are experts with knowledge in each parallel field to ensure there would be no error or miscommunication-which can be more costly to hire.

                             Another agile methodology is Extreme Programming (XP) which focuses greatly on collaboration between the customer and project team as well as the project members themselves. Extreme Programming holds best practices highly. There are 12 core components to Extreme Programming: The Planning Game, Small Releases, Metaphor, Simple Design, Testing, Refactoring, Pair Programming, Collective Ownership, Continuous Integration, Sustainable Pace, Whole Team, Coding Standards, and Workspace. In the *Planning Game* stakeholders and customers collaborate to decide on the requirements and features that should be included in the project. Risk, priorities, and estimations are all considered when making the decisions on requirements and features which would be beneficial for Driverless Cars as there is a high risk, and estimation of the end result, sustainability, and cost must be taken into account. *Simple Design* is the phase where small proof-of-concept mapping is done. This phased approach would be disadvantageous to Driverless Cars as there is a large variety of software and hardware systems you must coincide for success, a more detailed and complex mapping would be the best fit. *The Test* phase allows Developers to write unit tests before implementing the software. Testing is crucial to Driverless Cars software module considering there are many risks, so having this phase early and later will be beneficial. *Code Standard* phase allows the project developers to hold each other to standards that are determined by themselves. This can allow for better communication which results in better quality software more efficiently, though Driverless cars would want quality software as the company is serving a customer need, it doesn’t necessarily have urgency. The *Refactoring* phase offers a reconstruction of existing things and overall improvement of the code quality, as stated before in the RUP method- there is no room for iteration. *Pair Programming* is a practice where two programmers use one keyboard and work on the same code, this doesn’t necessarily have too much effect on Driverless Cars because sharing a computer vs good communication and two computers is minimally different. *Small Release* is definitely not beneficial to any large-scale, large-risk project; teams can not release only small parts of what should be a fully functioning project. For example, we can not release half of a plane and let passengers ride on half of it. *System Metaphor* is a best practice that should be applied regardless of what SDLC one is using. System Metaphor simply emphasizes the easy readability of code and the project components. *Onsite Costumer* highlights the customer as a major role. They provide feedback to the developers in real-time and features they would like to see. Though this may seem ideal, Driverless Cars can not have people testing out software that could potentially kill them, or other people or damage their surroundings. It could be ideal once all testing is done and all team members agree that the car is ready to be deployed onto the market. Having a customer come in then to offer suggestions to non-hardware or risk-inducing software, such as UI/UX, can be useful. Lastly, the *Sustainable Pace* phase promotes good work-life balance and emphasizes downtime being used as an idea to deal with uncertainties and potential issues. As previously mentioned, there are aspects from the Experience Programming agile methodology that are beneficial for best practice but during a different time and order than they are presented in XP. Similar to RUP, the risk outweighs the team-centric positives- the risk of lives is too high to accommodate an iterative process, especially when Driverless Cars has no prior module software yet so poor planning could lead to abuse of iteration which leads to more errors in the end.

                             The Waterfall Method is a software development lifecycle process that, unlike RUP and XP, has rigid process requirements which involve mapping out requirements, design, implementation of software, verification, and maintenance prior to release to the customers. This method would be advantageous to the software module Driverless Cars is going to release because the sensor's ability to verify its surroundings and the parallel park motion is not going to change much, if at all, for presumably the next ten to twenty years-this meaning that the module has rigid process requirements. There is no room for the opposite: flexible because Driverless Cars must get it right the first time as the cost of failure (both people and the car itself) is very high. That being said, there will be extensive documentation of each step and serial execution to ensure that *every* requirement is completed before moving into the next process. Because each step is signed off very seriously, this can delay the time taken to release the product; if the business sees the software as urgent Waterfall Method may not be the ideal approach. This (strict handoff) can also act as both another positive and negative; If you make a mistake and plan to add another requirement from the requirements or design phase, you will not be able to go back to that phase once it has been passed onto the next. Driverless Car stakeholders and developers must know *all* requirements they plan to implement before starting as they can not go back to enhance them when they find something wrong with the final product. The last phase, *maintenance,* allows for minor changes to the product if a bug has been discovered, but it is really assumed that in the *Testing* phase all QA testers are searching for any potential bugs and document them well to help find similar potential bugs in the system. This ensures great quality for the Driverless Cars software module. Overall, the waterfall method would be the most appropriate for this software module as it is a critical system with extreme risk and safety requirements. Similar projects that adopt this method are airplanes, automobiles, bridges, and large buildings.