# M3.B3: Social Media #2

`Once each month (a total of six times across the semester), you must identify and share an article on something relevant to the course; e.g., Agile Methods, Scrum, Extreme Programming, Continuous Integration, or DevOps. You may choose any relevant article from any relevant site.`

`Include the following in the document of your submission:`

1. `URL: The URL of the article`
2. `Description: A one-paragraph synopsis of the article, including conclusions. You must describe the article in your own words. Don't cut and paste from the article.`
3. `Recommendation: Do you recommend this article? Why?`

***Article Name: 3 Problems Scrum Doesn’t Solve***

***URL:*** [https://www.scrum.org/resources/blog/3-problems-scrum-doesnt-solve](https://www.scrum.org/resources/blog/3-problems-scrum-doesnt-solve)

Many companies fall into using Scrum because it is “trendy” or because some companies have swore that Scrum is the sole reason that their company is performing well. However, a team can use Scrum and it can completely fail if being implemented incorrectly. One incorrect assumption is that “Scrum will solve itself”- which frankly that sentence makes no sense in itself. The author gave an example that when working with a team, the team thought there was not enough items in the product backlog and was of the belief that “Scrum will solve this”. Really what the product owner should have done is “discuss the lack of items in the Sprint Retrospective and choose a path forward”. The next incorrect implementation that was spoke on is poor stakeholder communication. Some product owners are of the belief that there does not need to be communication with the stakeholders to address any adaptations to the project, but really there is still communication with stakeholders, it’s just a reduced amount. Lastly, the author suggests that eliminating dependencies will allow the project to not have bottlenecks. The Scrum team’s best route is to determine when external dependencies will be needed and create a process to manage and keep down external dependencies. 

The main point that the author was trying to get across in this article is that scrum doesn’t solve everything, instead it simply provides a framework that allows teams to plan more strategically and address blockers early. I agree with her, and find that many companies implement Agile Methodologies, such as scrum, because all other companies are doing it. However it you do not have a good team that fully understand the framework and how to properly implement it, Scrum will be of little use. I would recommend this article to anyone who is thinking of using Scrum or any team that has just switched to this process to better understand the do’s and don’ts.