# M7.B2: Social Media 4

```
Once each month (a total of six times across the semester), you must identify
and share an article on something relevant to the course; e.g., Agile methods,
Scrum, eXtreme Programming, continuous integration, DevOps, etc. You may choose any relevant article from any relevant site.

URL: The URL of the article
Description: A one-paragraph synopsis of the article, including the conclusions. You must describe the article in your own words.  Don't cut and paste from the article.
Recommendation: Do you recommend this article? Why?
```

URL: [https://www.scrum.org/resources/blog/how-can-scrum-master-support-product-owner](https://www.scrum.org/resources/blog/how-can-scrum-master-support-product-owner)

***How can the Scrum Master Support the Product Owner?***

       It has been a common interpretation struggle amongst Scrum Masters that they are unaware how to help the Product Owner. In this article, Magdalena Kucharska describes various methods where the Scrum Master can support the Product Owner. Each of the methods was pulled directly from the Scrum Guide and expanded on. The first one being “****Helping find techniques for effective Product Goal definition and Product Backlog Management;”.****  Using this line from the Scrum guide, Kucharska describes that as doing thorough research to find the best mapping technique fit for the project. For example, networking with other Scrum Masters, researching on google, attending training and doing trainings specifically with the product owner. Kucharska stressed the 1:1 sessions and training with the product owner because that it where they are able to really connect and share their paths of thinking/brainstorm the next best steps. The next line she pulls from the Scrum guide is “*************************Helping the Scrum Team understand the need for clear and concise Product Backlog items”.************************* Scrum Masters can support product owner in this aspect by ensuring transparency on BPI’s, typing PBI’s to definition of done, ensuring that the Scrum teams knows the why what and how of the upcoming sprint and setting up any standards and definitions surrounding PBI’s. Another line which she pulled from the Scrum guide was “******Helping establish empirical product planning for a complex environment;”.****** This encompasses taking into account all learned from previous sprint and reflecting/better for the next sprint.  To ensure this Scrum Masters must foster a safe environment for creativity, ideas opinions, etc. As well as help to create a focus on the value of the product.

       After reading this article, it is something that I would recommend to others. After working on Scrum Team for two years, I noticed that the Scrum Master I worked with didn’t seem to collaborate with our Product Owner very much. It almost seemed as if the Scrum Master got updates from the Product Owner and that was it, but he never tried to aid her in her role or find ways to map out the product backlog. I think having a good collaboration/safe space/good communication with the product owner and Scrum Master almost always leads to significantly better project success. The points highlighted and suggested by Kucharska were very valid and could aid to that success.